# MODEL1209060000: ymn5_0

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1209060000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1209060000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Heavner2012 - Metabolic Network of S.cerevisiae

This SBML representation of the yeast metabolic network is made available
under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported Licence (see
www.creativecommons.org).

This model is described in the article:

[Yeast 5 - an expanded reconstruction of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae
metabolic network.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22663945)

Heavner BD, Smallbone K, Barker B, Mendes P, Walker LP.

BMC Syst Biol. 2012 Jun 4;6:55.

Abstract:

BACKGROUND: Efforts to improve the computational reconstruction of the
Saccharomyces cerevisiae biochemical reaction network and to refine the
stoichiometrically constrained metabolic models that can be derived from such
a reconstruction have continued since the first stoichiometrically constrained
yeast genome scale metabolic model was published in 2003. Continuing this
ongoing process, we have constructed an update to the Yeast Consensus
Reconstruction, Yeast 5. The Yeast Consensus Reconstruction is a product of
efforts to forge a community-based reconstruction emphasizing standards
compliance and biochemical accuracy via evidence-based selection of reactions.
It draws upon models published by a variety of independent research groups as
well as information obtained from biochemical databases and primary
literature. RESULTS: Yeast 5 refines the biochemical reactions included in the
reconstruction, particularly reactions involved in sphingolipid metabolism;
updates gene-reaction annotations; and emphasizes the distinction between
reconstruction and stoichiometrically constrained model. Although it was not a
primary goal, this update also improves the accuracy of model prediction of
viability and auxotrophy phenotypes and increases the number of epistatic
interactions. This update maintains an emphasis on standards compliance,
unambiguous metabolite naming, and computer-readable annotations available
through a structured document format. Additionally, we have developed MATLAB
scripts to evaluate the model's predictive accuracy and to demonstrate basic
model applications such as simulating aerobic and anaerobic growth. These
scripts, which provide an independent tool for evaluating the performance of
various stoichiometrically constrained yeast metabolic models using flux
balance analysis, are included as Additional files 1, 2 and 3. CONCLUSIONS:
Yeast 5 expands and refines the computational reconstruction of yeast
metabolism and improves the predictive accuracy of a stoichiometrically
constrained yeast metabolic model. It differs from previous reconstructions
and models by emphasizing the distinction between the yeast metabolic
reconstruction and the stoichiometrically constrained model, and makes both
available as Additional file 4 and Additional file 5 and at
http://yeast.sf.net/ as separate systems biology markup language (SBML) files.
Through this separation, we intend to make the modeling process more
accessible, explicit, transparent, and reproducible.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels)
and identified by:
[MODEL1209060000](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/MODEL1209060000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models.
PMID: [20587024](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication>http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/] for more
information.


